I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today.
I got work to do. I got a job, baby.
So,
I saw this Devil Wears Prada sequel
Together again.
Hello. Well, look what TJ Max dragged
in. Sorry. Who is this? And
I
liked it more than I thought I was going
to. I mean, I didn't need this thing
even though all the money it's making is
saying somebody does, but I do like how
it figured out a way to repeat the
original conceit. Then in the first
movie, Anne Hathaway plays this aspiring
journalist who reluctantly ends up at a
fashion magazine.
That I [music] can't even talk about.
All right, everyone. Gird your loins.
>> And now, she's an unemployed journalist
who reluctantly makes her way back to
the same fashion magazine where her old,
fabulously terrible boss, Miranda,
played by Meryl Streep,
>> Miranda.
Took you long enough. is still queen.
Andy's still a grunt, but now she's a
grunt with a little bit of staff and
some power. And somebody on her staff
caught my eye. His credited name is Mack
and he's played by Larry Mitchell. Mack
got laid off with Andy from their last
job and she brought him with her to this
magazine. And, you know, he's kind of an
average guy for The Devil Wears Prada,
like a little schlubby in his real
beat-up, probably funky Yankees cap that
seems like it's molding. And he's got a
dress shirt that is loaded with pens in
the chest pocket. There's nobody with
pens anywhere in The Devil Wears Prada.
>> [laughter]
>> So, I mean, he he of stands out. And all
I could think while I watched this guy
during his 5 minutes of screen time, was
why is this movie not more about him? I
mean, I could have watched a whole
comedy about this guy coming to work,
being ridiculed for his masculinity, his
love of sports and sandwiches, his utter
lack of interest in the fashion world.
What do his story pitches even look like
at a place called Runway magazine when
he looks like he's throwing out a pitch
in the fourth inning of a baseball game?
I don't know. These are just thoughts
that I was having watching this movie.
And, you know, once upon a time, this
guy would have been the Anne Hathaway of
the sequel. He'd have been a version of
what we call a working stiff type.
Maybe he would have been played by a
Kevin James or a Charles S. Dutton.
There's an entire history of American
popular culture you could tell simply
through the depiction of work.
And the working stiff was a crucial part
of that history. Think of like Marlon
Brando playing that longshoreman in On
the Waterfront, or him as Stanley
Kowalski in A Streetcar NAMED DESIRE.
STELLA!
>> [screaming]
>> FOR DECADES, THE DEPICTION OF working
people was a mirror for the rest of the
country. This This period when
blue-collar labor was a central and
crucial part of the country's identity.
We made things. We worked for a living.
And our art dramatized the lives of
laborers. It brought labor to life. You
probably saw the most sustained
depiction of working people in the
1970s, when just about every show and
every movie involved somebody with a
labor or service job.
And, you know, an obvious example of
this is Norman Lear's TV universe. All
in the Family and Maude and Sanford and
Son and One Day at a Time and Good
Times, The Jeffersons. On those shows,
having a job was a source of pride, for
sure.
But, you know, for Archie Bunker, it was
an ethos. I mean, I never saw him at his
dock job. He worked from that armchair,
as far as I was concerned.
>> Well, look, the company announced that
they're having a 20% cutback in
personnel, that's all, and
I think it's going to hit my department
pretty hard. Oh, Archie.
>> But, other characters needed to work to
live. When Florida or James Evans lost a
job on Good Times,
>> What's going on? I TOLD DADDY I CAN GET
A FULL-TIME JOB AT THE COUNTY HOSPITAL.
And I sold my art supplies. And
Michael's trying to get a job at the
drugstore delivering orders.
You hear that, James? They're all
willing to sacrifice to keep your home.
I remember thinking, as a kid, that this
is my mother's worst fear, and I don't
know if I can handle the stress of
seeing this go down.
And I was like, six.
>> [laughter]
>> But, this art also valorized work. It
took it seriously, at least as a as a
subject. In Urban Cowboy, we we watched
John Travolta work in the oil fields.
And then there was Sally Field and Norma
Rae
standing on a piece of factory
equipment, holding up that union sign.
You know, characters had manual labor
jobs. They wore uniforms, their hands
and faces got dirty. They had ambitions
for the workplace, but also beyond it.
Rocky? Adrian!
>> [cheering]
>> Rocky! Adrian! Rocky! Hey,
where's your hat?
I love you. I love you.
I mean, that's basically a movie about a
loan shark's debt collector who meets a
nice girl who works in a pet store. I
mean, that's what the movie is. And by
the 1980s, you could see that depiction
of work kind of starting to change.
Factories were closing, and certain
kinds of labor started to disappear. I
mean, the '80s moved from the streets to
the skyscraper
and things got real glamorous. I mean,
this was the period that saw the
beginning
of a show called Lifestyles of the Rich
and Famous. Get ready for another
incredible Lifestyles, [music] your VIP
journey into the lives and loves of
today's winners who really know how to
enjoy the great things of life. Big
business and corporate America with the
new doc yards, y'all. The point is,
ladies and gentlemen,
that greed,
for lack of a better word,
is good. Stories about working people's
despair and sense of ethics became tales
about
young, charismatic people lying and
scheming their way to the top and a
winning. Michael J. Fox going from his
Kansas farm to a New York City office
tower in The Secret of My Success.
First, the idea of this merger made me
as nervous as a long-tailed cat in a
room full of rocking chairs,
but then I realized I was wrong.
The combination of our products and your
distribution capabilities could vault
Pemrose right to the top of the market.
Melanie Griffith in a Working Girl
huffing it in from Staten Island every
day, running this game where she
pretends to be her boss. This woman is
my secretary. She's not. Oh, no?
Ask her. These movies were about people
with basic common man smarts being just
as good and more authentic than somebody
with a Harvard Business School
education. The scheming was better than
having your job handed to you because
your grandfather grandfathered you in.
But there was always a seed of doubt
about the moral soundness of these
operations back then. There were so many
movies about corporate evil and they
usually involved some kind of new
technology. Denzel Washington in
Virtuosity, Sandra Bullock in The Net.
But by the time the 2000's roll around,
there is this identity shift, not away
from worker and working, but definitely
toward a more humane depiction of
technology, genius, and CEOs. And I'm
going to say
>> [laughter]
>> that Iron Man was that shift.
Is it better to be feared or respected?
And I say,
is it too much to ask for both?
This is 2008. I mean, we already know
who Mark Zuckerberg is at this point.
Steve Jobs is a god. We have Facebook on
our iPhone. And here was a whole movie
about this guy named Tony Stark, this
conceited tech genius who doesn't listen
to anybody, and reluctantly agrees to
save the world.
>> But, I did you a big favor.
I have successfully privatized world
peace.
>> [music]
[applause]
>> Word of the day.
>> Basically, this billionaire
What was new was that the movie was sure
we would love him. It's funny, Miranda
Priestly arrives 2 years before Tony
Stark. She's as unyielding a boss as he
is a colleague. That first Devil Wears
Prada movie doesn't need her to be warm.
But, 20 years later, after four seasons
of Succession and many, many seasons of
Shark Tank, of superstar founders and
CEOs, of billionaire politicians, and
the venture capitalist and moguls who
back them, men, all men.
This sequel
wants us to see Miranda brought a little
bit low so we can appreciate that she
could have always been worse. But, in
the meantime, in the background, on the
verge of extinction, there's Mac. And a
lot of people, they don't do the work
they used to do anymore. I know it. This
is blue-collar work I'm talking about,
but another part of this history is the
belief in the middle class. That's what
the home part of all those sitcoms was
there to advertise, that hard work could
get you a nice house that anybody could
barge into because you never have to
lock the front door. The shows about the
life of a guy like Mac,
they're dwindling, and we're getting
increasingly more shows and movies about
the people who works for and the
companies that own their work. Now look,
I'm not saying there is no work about
regular people working. There's even a
show about journalism. It's called The
Paper. And I see you Abbott Elementary.
I see you The Bear. I miss you raunchy
English teacher. But that is not quite
enough for me.
What I'm talking about
>> [laughter]
>> is that I think we need a revolution. I
think we need to see the construction
workers and the app delivery guys and
the Uber drivers and baristas. Shows
with characters who do that work. How do
they live? How are they living? I don't
know. It wouldn't have to be grim. I
talked to all kinds of people who do all
kinds of hard work, demanding physical
work, and they do it amid all kinds of
uncertainty and they still make jokes
and smile and show videos to their
homies between gigs.
Popular art about work has always been a
kind of fantasy of what's possible. And
I'd rather watch something about the
dream of how things could be for working
people than let all serious depictions
of employment be taken over by the
people trying to fire us. So, pack up
your things and HR will be in to see you
shortly.
>> Uh
Happy?
>> [music]